




started June 1 2026
What you will learn
- Describe the capabilities of generative AI    -   capabilites
- identify the application of generative AI     -  Applications 
- Explore common Generative AI models and tools - common models and tools 

Module 1: Introduction and Capabilites of Generative AI 

AI MODELS
Discriminative AI - distinguishes between classes of DATA 
Generative AI - Creates new content based on training DATA

1  genrative AI models can _________ the training data to create unique content ?                               Generative AI              Discrimitavie Ai
                          Learn from
                                                                                                                
2 What type of generative ai capability does a large language model primarly exibit?
- text generagtion


QUIZ FOR MODULE 1

7. Which model type uses labeled data to differntiate between classes rather than generate new content?
Discriminative Ai

4. Which activity best reflects the text generation capabilities of large language models?
producing text replies in response to given prompt

9. What improves the accuracy of content generated by a generative Ai tool?
providing clear and descriptive input prompts 




Module 2: applications and tools Generative AI  

practice quiz 

1. what is the key impact of generative AI on medical Treatments, particularly in drug discover?
Accelerating drug discovery through generative AI models 

2. How does generative AI empower the human resource function?
Creating job requisitions

3. which of the following generative ai tools is best for researching the latest news?
Gemini


QUIZ FOR MODULE 2                  

10. Imagae generation tool is most recognized for creating highly detailed artistic visuals from text descriptions?
MidJourney 

8. Generates orginal melodies and instrumentals using AI?
Audio craft

4. Natural sounding AI that reflects diffrent emotion and languages?
LOVO

3. Provides a free platform for generating images from text prompts and lets user choose style?
Freepik

2. Which task can Chatgpt perform as part of its code generation capabilites?
generate python code and guide how to excute it 




                          Generative AI:                                                         Agentic AI:
Primary function-        Creates content                                                 excutes task and solves problems

Interaction model-      reactive waits for user prompts                                      Proactive, sets sub-goals 

Tool use-              usually confined to its own generated output                         intergrated external APIs and tools to interact

Memory-                Generates stateless. each prompt is an isolated interation           Maintains persistent state and memory across long running task



Module 2 completed June 2



Module 3: Course quiz and wrap up














Generative AI Impact on business and professional
Finacial sector:  fraud detection
pharmaceutical industry:  create medicine patterns - powers widespread innovation


               AI applications 
General assistant       development/programming 
                          
ChatGPT                  cursor 
Gemini                   IBM WATSONX.AI
claude                   Amazon code whisperer
                         tabnine
                         replit


How will Ai help cybersecurity 
it will provide real time threat dectection, automating incident responses and proccessing massive datasets at speeds human analyst cannot.



