
 Course started june 8 


program overview: - Core security concepts - security domains - network security - computer basics - assets,threats and vulrnerabilities -  incident detection - python

common job titles to look for - security analyst or specialist - cybersecurity analyst or specialist

security anaylst skills: programming langauages - (SIEM) tools - computer foresensics
 


Module 1 welcome to the exciting world of cybersecurity

Benefits of security: - protect against external and internal threats - meets regulatory compliance - maintains and improves business productivity - reduces expenses

Sensitive personally idnetifiable information (SPII)- A specific type of PII that fall under stricter handling. such as (social security numbers, medical/finacial information)  
Personal identifiable Information (PII) is any type of data that can be used to identify a person


Module 1 Quiz

2. What occurs during a security audit?
review of an organizations security records, activites and other related documents 

3. which of the following entities may be an internal threat to an organization?
vendors - employes - trusted partners

4. idenity theft is an act of stealing personal information to committ theft while impersonating victim 

9. Which of the following statements accurately describe personally identifiable information (PII) and sensitive personally identifiable information (SPII)? Select all that apply.
an example of PII is someone's date of birth.
Both PII and SPII are vulnerable to identity theft.

completed june 8


Module 2 The evolution of cybersecurity

What you will learn: - viruses - malware - social engineering - digital age -  security domains 
Brain virus - 
morris worm - 
the loveletterattack - was social engineering 
equifax breach - one of the largest known data breaches of sensitive information over 143 million customers records we stolen

QUIZ History of cybersecurity 

1. A computer virus is malicious_____ that interferes with computer operations and causes damage
- code
3. what were key impacts of the equifax breach?
The significant finacial consequences of a breach became more apparent - millions of customer PII was stolen
 2.what is one way that the morris worm helped shape the security industry 




The eight CISSP security domains
   first 4:  security and risk management -  assest security - security architecture and engineering - communications and network security 
  second 4:  Identity and access management - security assessment and testing - security operations - software development security


The eight CISSP security domains can help an organization and its security team fortify against and prepare for a data breach. Data breaches range from simple to complex and fall under one or more domains

QUIZ EIGHT CISSP SECURITY DOMAINS
 1. example of security ______ include security and risk mangement and security archeitecture and engineering 
domains

what we covered - viruses - malware - social engineering - digital age - security domains 

Module 2  TEST

 2. what historical event used a malware attachment to steal user information and password?
LoveLetter attack 
 5.which of the following task are part of the security and risk management domain?
 buisness continuty - defining security goals and objectives - compliance 
 7.which of the following task may be part of the asset security domain?
proper diposal of digital assets - securing digital and physical threats 
10.



Module 3 Protect against threats, risks and  vulnerablities 

what you learn: security framework and controls - ethics of security 

purpose of security frameworks:   protecting PII - securing finacial information - identify security weakness - managing organizational risks
componets of security frameworks:  idetifying and documenting security goals - setting guidlines to achieve security goals - implementing strong security processes - monitoring and communicating results
secuurity controls
CIA TRIAD - A foundational cybersecurity model

security and framework QUIZ
1. security frameworks are guidliines used for building plans to mitgigate risk and threats to data and privacy.
2. security controls are safe guards designed to reduce specfic security risks.
4. Security teams use the NIST cybersecurity framework(CSF) as a baseline to mange short and long term risk


Security ethics - guidlines for making appropiate decisions as a security professional 
ehical principles: confidentiality - privacy protection - Laws


MODULE 3 TEST 

1. Primary purpose of security frameworks? 
protecting PII data - Managing organizational risk - idenify security weakness
9. ethical priciple describes safeguarding personal information from unauthorized use?
privacy protection

COMPLETED JUNE 9


Module 4 Cybersecurity tools and programming laugauages 
 
What you'll learn: SIEM tools - playbooks -  network protocol analyzers - linux operating system - programming languages 

Important cybersecurity tools QUIZ

1. what tool is to designed to capure and analyze data traffic within network?
Network protocol analyzer(packet sniffer)
2. SIEM tools use dashborads to organize data into catergories and allow analyst to identify potential security incidents such breaches as they happen.
4. A _______ is a manual that provides details about operational actions
Playbook


CORE CYBERSECURITY AND KNOWLEDGE SKILLS

Linux - an open- source operating system
Structured query language (SQL) - used to create, interact with, and request information from a database

PYTHON and SQL can be used to perform repetitive, time consuming tasks and/or request information from a database


COMPLETED JUNE 9








